# CIND-820-Big-Data-Analytics-Project

The objective of this big data analytics project is to identify the key variables that predict long-term outcomes of adult U.S. residents who developed COVID-19 before February 2023. Behavioural Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data is collected annually by the U.S. Centers of Disease Control and Prevention; residents of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Virigin Islands participate in telephone surveys. BRFSS survey data which was collected between January 2022 and February 2023 will be used to investigate the following three research questions:  

    1.	What factors predict symptoms lasting three months or longer following a COVID-19 infection? 
    2.	Among people who tested positive for COVID-19, what key variables predict frequent mental distress? 
    3.	What factors predict serious difficulty concentrating, remembering, or making decisions among people who have been infected with COVID-19? 

The primary outcome variables of interest are <b> COVIDSMP </b>, <b> MENTHLTH </b>, and <b> DECIDE </b>, which represent the answers to the questions <i>Did you have any symptoms lasting 3 months or longer that you did not have prior to having coronavirus or COVID-19? </i>, <i>Now thinking about your mental health, which includes stress, depression, and problems with emotions, for how many days during the past 30 days was your mental health not good?</i>, and <i> Because of a physical, mental, or emotional condition, do you have serious difficulty concentrating, remembering, or making decisions? </i>, respectively. The <b> MENTHLTH </b> variable will be dichotimized using a threshold of 14 days, as 14 or more days of mentally unhealthy days is commonly used as a measure of frequent mental distress, which is associated with mental disorders. 
